she
we can go in one
minute
so mix
the
I think he's going
outside okay
Ione
this one
here
second the gate is
[Music]
open
but there beig
sides yeah yeah yeah
spe
we'll need at Le two
three
I
if you can all just look at
for
my
we must move down
there
[Laughter]
you made it all
happen is this mine
want to
sit tou
many
excuse
me
see
[Laughter]
know
directly in front of me
sorry of
course got got
out
sorry
Jesus Christ but you cannot be
here
thank
you
anybody knows where they coming from
left or
right
no straight oh in front okay great
thanks
got the wooden
door
com
should
please be
seated the sitting is open the court
meets today to deliver an open court its
decision on the request for indication
of provisional measures submitted by
South Africa in the case concerning
application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide in the Gaza Strip South
Africa versus
Israel judge Robinson who duly
participated in both the deliberation
and the final vote is for reasons made
known to me unable to take his seat on
the bench
today I would like to welcome the
eminent representatives of the Republic
of South Africa and the state of Israel
who are in the Great Hall of Justice
today in particular I recognize the
presence of Her Excellency Miss n pondor
minister of international relations and
cooperation of the Republic of South
Africa I recall that on 29 December
2023 South Africa filed in the registry
of the Court an application instituting
proceedings against Israel concerning
alleged violations in the Gaza Strip of
obligations under the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide to which I shall refer as
the genocide convention or the
convention the application of South
Africa contained a request for the
indication of provisional measures
submitted with reference to article 41
of the statute and to articles 73 74 and
75 of the rules of court in accordance
with the usual practice I shall not read
the introductory paragraphs of the order
which set out the procedural history of
the case I shall also omit or summarize
some other paragraphs I shall therefore
begin the reading of the order at
paragraph
13 in the order the court Begins by
recalling the immediate context in which
the present case came it observes that
on 7 October 2023 Hamas and other armed
groups present in the god carried out an
attack in Israel killing more than 1,200
person
injuring thousands and abducting some
240 people many of whom to
be following this attack Israel launched
a large scale military operation in Gaza
by land air and sea which is causing
massive civilian casualties extensive
destruction of Civilian infrastructure
and the displacement of the overwhelming
majority of the population in
Gaza the court is acutely aware of the
of the human tragedy that is unfolding
in the region and is deeply concerned
about the continuing loss of life and
human the ongoing conflict in Gaza has
been addressed in the framework of
several organs and specialized agencies
of the United Nations in particular
reservations have been adopted by the
general assembly and the security
Council of the United Nations referring
to many aspects of the conflict the
scope of the present case subm to the
cour is limited as South Africa has
instituted these proceedings under the
genocide
convention the court then turns to the
conditions needed to be fulfilled in
order for it to indicate provisional
measures with respect to the question of
primma jurisdiction the court observes
that it may indicate provisional
measures only if the provisions relied
on by the applicant of Prim to afford a
basis on which jurisdiction could be
found it must be shown that the claim of
one party is positively opposed by the
other the two sides must hold clearly
opposite views concerning the question
of the performance or non-performance of
certain International obligations to
determine whether a dispute exists in
the present case the court cannot limit
itself to noting that one of the parties
maintains the convention applies while
the other denies it since South Africa
has invoked as a basis for the Court's
Jurisdiction the compromissory Clause of
the genocide
convention the court must also ascertain
at the present stage of the proceedings
whether it appears that the acts and
omissions complained of by the applicant
are capable of falling within the scope
of that convention graan
mat the court recalls that for purposes
of deciding whether a dispute existed
between the parties at the time of the
filing of the application it takes into
account in particular any statements or
documents exchanged between the parties
as well as any exchanges made in
multilateral settings in so doing it
pays special attention to the author of
the statement or document its intended
or actual address e and its
content the existence of a dispute is a
matter for objective determination by
the court it is a matter of substance
not a question of form or
procedure the court notes that South
Africa issued public statements in
various multilateral and bilateral
settings in which it expressed its view
that in light of the nature scope and
extent of Israel's military operations
in Gaza Israel's actions amounted to
violations of its obligations under the
genocide convention for instance at the
resumed 10th emergency special session
of the United Nations General Assembly
on 12 December 2023 at which Israel was
represented the South African
representative to the United Nations
stated that I quote the events of the
past 6 weeks in Gaza have Illustrated
that Israel is acting contrary to its
obligations in terms of the genocide
convention end of quote South Africa
recalled this statement in its note
foral of 21 December 2023 to the Embassy
of Israel in
ptor the court notes that Israel
dismissed any accusation of genocide in
the context of the conflict in Gaza in a
document published by the Israeli
Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 6th
December 2023 which was subsequently
updated and reproduced on the website of
the Israel Defense Forces on 15 December
2023 under the title the war against
Hamas answering your most pressing
questions stating that I quote the
accusation of genocide against Israel is
not only wholly unfounded as a matter of
fact and law it is morally repugnant end
of quote in the document Israel also
stated that I quote the accusation of
genocide is not just legally and
factually incoherent it is obscene and
that there was no valid basis in factor
law for the outrageous charge of
genocide end of
quote in light of the foregoing the
court considers that the parties appear
to hold clearly opposite views as to
whether certain Acts or omissions
allegedly committed by Israel in Gaza
amount to violations by the latter of
its obligations under the genocide
convention the court finds that the
aforementioned elements are sufficient
at this stage to establish primacia the
existence of a dispute between the
parties relating to the interpretation
application or fulfillment of the
genocide
Convention as to whether the acts and
omissions complained of by the applicant
appear to be capable of falling within
the provisions of the genocide
convention the court recalls that South
Africa considers Israel to be
responsible for committing genocide in
Gaza and for failing to prevent and
punish genocidal acts South Africa
contends that Israel has also violated
other obligations under the genocide
convention including those concerning
conspiracy to commit genocide direct and
public incitement to genocide attempted
genocide and complicity in
genocide at the present stage of the
proceedings the court is not required to
ascertain whether any violations of
Israel's obligations under the genocide
convention have occurred such a finding
could only be made by the court at the
stage of the examination of the merits
of the present case at the stage of
making an order on the request for an
indication of provisional measures the
Court's task is to establish whether the
acts and omissions capable sorry
complained of by the applicant appear to
be capable of falling within the
provision of the genocide convention in
the Court's View at least some of the
acts and omissions alleged by South
Africa to have been committed by Israel
in Gaza appear to be capable of falling
within the provisions of the
convention in light of the following the
court concludes that praasa it has
jurisdiction pursuant to article 9 of
the convention to entertain the
case given this conclusion the court
considers that it cannot acced to
Israel's requests that the case be
removed from the general
list the court turns next to the
question of standing of South Africa
Court notes that the respondent did not
challenge the standing of the applicant
in the present
proceedings in the case concerning
application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide The Gambia V Myanmar where
article 9 of the genocide was gen of the
genocide convention was also invoked the
court observed that all states parties
to the convention have a common interest
to ensure the prevention suppression and
Punishment of genocide by committing
themselves to fulfilling the obligations
contained in the
convention such common interest
implies that the obligations in question
are owed by any state party to all the
other state parties to the relevant
convention they are obligations erga
omus pares in the sense that each state
party has an interest in compliance with
with them in any given case the common
interest in compliance with the relevant
obligations under the genocide
convention entails that any state party
without distinction is entitled to
invoke the responsibility of another
state party for an alleged breach of its
obligations erga omis partis accordingly
the court found that any state party to
the genocide convention May invoke the
responsibility of another state party
including through the institution of
proc edings before the court with a view
to determining the alleged failure to
comply with its obligations erga omes
pares under the convention and to
bringing a failure to the end the court
concludes Prima fascia that South Africa
has standing to submit to it the dispute
with Israel concerning alleged
violations of obligations under the
genocide
convention the court then turns to the
question of the rights whose protection
is sought and the link between such
rights and the measures requested it
recalls that its power to indicate
provisional measures under article 41 of
the statute has as its object the
preservation of the respective rights
claimed by the parties in a case pending
its decision on the merits thereof it
follows that the court must be concerned
to preserve by such measures the rights
which may subsequently be adjudged by it
to belong to either party therefore the
court May exercise this power only if it
is satisfied that the rights asserted by
the party requesting such measures are
at least
plausible at this stage of the
proceedings however the court is not
called upon to determine definitively
whether the rights which South Africa
wishes to seek protected exist it need
only decide whether the rights claimed
by South Africa and for which it seeks
protection are plausible moreover a link
much must exist between the rights whose
protect ction is sought and the
provisional measures being
requested the court recalls that in
accordance with Article 1 of the
convention all states parties theto have
undertaken to prevent and to punish the
crime of genocide Article 2 provides
that I quote genocide means any of the
following acts committed with an intent
to destroy in whole or in part a
national ethnical racial or religious
group as such a killing members of the
group b causing serious bodily or mental
harm to members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in H or
in part D imposing measures intended to
prevent births within the group E
forcing forcibly transferring Children
of the group to another group end of
quote pursuant to article 3 of the
genocide convention the following acts
are also prohibited by the convention
conspiracy to commit genocide direct and
public incitement to commit genocide
attempt to commit genocide and
complicity in
genocide the provisions of the
convention are intended to protect the
members of a national ethnical racial or
religious group from acts of genocide or
any other punishable acts enumerated in
article 3 the court considers that there
is a correlation between the rights of
members of groups protected under the
genocide convention the obligations
incumbent on state parties theto and the
right of any state party to seek
compliance therewith by another state
party as the court has stated in other
cases in order for acts to fall within
the scope of article two of the
convention the intent must be to destroy
at least a substantial part of a
particular group this is demanded by the
very nature of the crime of genocide
since the object and purpose of the
Convention as a whole is to prevent the
intentional destruction of groups the
part part targeted must be significant
enough to have an impact on the group as
a whole the Palestinians appear to
constitute a distinct National ethnical
racial or religious group and hence a
protected group within the meaning of
Article 2 of the genocide convention the
rep observes that according to United
Nations sources the Palestinian
population in the Gaza Strip comprises
over 2 million people Palestinians in
the Gaza Strip form a substantial part
of the protected
group the court notes that the military
operation being conducted by Israel
following the attack of 7 October 2023
has resulted in a large number of deaths
and injuries as well as massive
destruction of homes the forcible
displacement of the vast majority of the
population and extensive damage to
civilian
infrastructure while figures relating to
the Gaza Strip cannot be independently
verified recent information indicates
that
25,700 Palestinians have been killed
over 63,000 injuries have been reported
over 360 housing units have been
destroyed or partially damaged and
approximately 1.7 million persons have
been internally
displaced the court takes note in this
regard of the statement by the United
Nations under Secretary General for
humanitarian Affairs and emergency
relief coordinator Mr Martin Griffith on
5 January 2024 I quote Gaza has become a
place of death and despair families are
sleeping in the open as temperatures
plummet areas where civilians were told
to relocate for their safety have come
under bombardment medical facilities are
under Relentless attack a public health
disaster is
unfolding Gaza has simply become
uninhabitable its people are witnessing
daily threats to their very existence
while the world watches on end of
quote following a mission to North Gaza
the World Health Organization reported
that as of 21 December 2023 iord quote
an unprecedented 93% of the population
of Gaza is facing crisis levels of
hunger with insufficient food and high
levels of malnutrition end of
quote the court further notes the
statement issued by the commissioner
General of the United Nations relief and
works Agency for Palestinian Palestine
refugees in the near East or unra Mr
Philipe lazarini on 13 January
2024 I quote it's been 100 days since
the devastating War started killing and
displacing people in Gaza following the
horrific attacks that Hamas and other
groups carried out against people in
Israel it's been 100 days of ordeal and
anxiety for hostages and their
families in the past 100 days sustained
bombardment across the gazer stript C
caused the massive displacement of a
population that is in a state of flux
con stly uprooted and forced to leave
overnight only to move to places which
are just as
unsafe this war affected more than 2
million people the entire population of
Gaza many will carry lifelong scars both
physical and
psychological the vast majority
including children are deeply
traumatized overcrowded and unsanitary
UNR shelters have become home to more
than 1.4 million people they lack
everything everything from food to
hygiene to privacy people live in
inhumane conditions where diseases are
spreading including among children they
live through the unlivable and the with
the clock ticking fast towards famine
the plight of children in Gaza is
especially heartbreaking an entire
generation of children is traumatized
and will take years to heal thousands
have been killed maimed and orphaned
hundreds of thousands are deprived of
Education their future is in jeopardy
with far-reaching and long lasting
consequences the unre commissioner
General also stated that the crisis in
Gaza is I quote compounded by
dehumanizing language end of quote in
this regard the court has taken note of
a number of statements made by senior
Israeli officials it calls attention in
particular to the following
examples on 9 October 2023 Mr yoav
Galant defense minister of Israel
announced that he had ordered a Complete
Siege of Gaza City and there then that
there would be no electricity no food no
fuel and that everything was
closed on the following day Minister
Galant stated speaking to Israeli troops
on the Gaza border I quote I have
released all restraints you saw what we
are fighting against we are fighting
Human animals this is the Isis of Gaza
this is what we are fighting against
Gaza won't return to what it was before
there will be no Hamas we will eliminate
everything if it doesn't take one day it
will take a week it will take weeks or
even months we will reach all places end
of
quote on 12 October 2023 Mr Isaac Herzog
president of Israel stated referring to
Gaza I I quote we are working operating
militarily according to rules of
international law unequivocally it is an
entire nation out there that is
responsible it is not true this rhetoric
about civilians not aware not involved
it is absolutely not true they could
have risen up they could have fought
against that evil regime which took over
Gaza in Auda but we are at War we are at
War we are at War we are defending our
homes we are protecting our homes that's
the truth and when a nation protects its
home it fights and we will fight until
we break their backbone end of quote on
13 October 2023 Mr Israel Katz then
minister of energy and infrastructure of
Israel stated on X formerly Twitter I
quote we will fight the terrorist
organization Hamas and destroy it all
the civilian population in Gaza is
ordered to leave immediately we will win
they will not receive a drop of water or
a single battery until they leave the
world end of
quote the court also takes note of a
press release of 16 November
2023 issued by 37 special rurs
independent experts and members of
working groups part of the special
procedures of the United Nations Human
Rights Council in which they voiced
alarm over I quote discernably genocidal
and dehumanizing rhetor
coming from senior Israeli government
officials end of quote in addition on 27
October 2023 the United Nations
committee on the elimination of racial
discrimination observed that it was
highly concerned about the sharp
increase in racist hate speech and
dehumanization directed at Palestinians
since 7
October in the Court's view the
aforementioned facts and circumstances
are sufficient sufficient to conclude
that at least some of the rights claimed
by South Africa and for which it is
seeking protection are plausible this is
the case with respect to the right of
Palestinians in Gaza to be protected
from acts of genocide and related
prohibited acts identified in article 3
and the right of South Africa to seek
Israel's compliance with the latter's
obligations under the
convention the court then turns to the
condition of the link between the
plausible rights claimed by South Africa
and the provisional measures
requested it considers that by their
very nature at least some of the
provisional measures sought by South
Africa are aimed at preserving the
plausible rights it asserts on the basis
of the genocide convention in the
present case namely the right of the
Palestinians in Gaza to be protected
from acts of genocide and related
prohibited acts mentioned in article 3
and the right of South Africa to see
seek Israel's compliance with the
latter's obligations under the
convention therefore a link exists
between the rights claimed by South
Africa that the court has found to be
plausible and at least some of the
provisional measures
requested the court turns next to the
question of risk of irreparable
prejudice and
urgency it notes that pursuant to
article 41 of its statute it has the
power to indicate isal measures when
irreparable Prejudice could be caused to
rights which are the subject of judicial
proceedings or when the alleged
disregard of such rights might
entail irreparable
consequences however the power of the
court to indicate provisional measures
will only be exercised if there's
urgency in the sense that there is a
real and imminent risk that a reparable
Prejudice will be caused to the rights
claimed before the Court gives its final
decision
the condition of urgency is met when the
acts susceptible of causing irreparable
Prejudice can occur at any moment before
the court makes the final decision in
the case the court must therefore
consider whether such a risk exists at
this stage of the
proceedings the court is not called upon
for purposes of its decision on the
request for the indication of
provisional measures to establish the
existence of breaches of obligations
under the genocide convention but to
determine whether the circumstances
require the indication of provisional
measures for the protection of rights
under that instrument as already noted
the court cannot at this stage make
definitive findings of fact and the
right of each party to submit arguments
with respect to the merits remains
unaffected by the Court's decision on
the request for the indication of
provisional
measures the court recalls that as
underlined in general assembly
resolution 961 of 11 December 1946 I
quote genocide is a denial of the right
of existence of entire human groups as
homicide is the denial of the right to
live of individual human beings such
denial of the right of existence shocks
the conscience of mankind results in
great losses to humanity in the form of
cultural and other contributions
represented by these human groups and is
contrary to moral law and to the spirit
and aims of the United Nations end of
quote in view of the fundamental values
sought to be protected by the genocide
convention the court considers that the
plausible rights in question in this
proceeding namely the right of
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip to be
protected from acts of genocide and
related prohibited acts identified in
article three of the genocide convention
and the right of South Africa to seek
Israel's compliance with the latter's
obligation under the convention are of
such an nature that prejudice to them is
capable of C causing irreparable
harm during the ongoing conflict senior
United Nations officials have repeatedly
called attention to the risk of further
deterioration of conditions in the Gaza
Strip the court takes note for instance
of the letter dated 6th December 2023
whereby the Secretary General of the
United Nations brought the following
information to the attention of the
security Council
I quote the Health Care system in Gaza
is collapsing nowhere is safe in Gaza
amid constant bombarding by the Israel
Defense Forces and without shelter or
the essentials to survive I expect
public order to break to completely
break down soon due to the desperate
conditions rendering even limited
humanitarian assistance impossible an
even worse situation could unfold
including epidemic diseases and
increased pressure for Mass displacement
into neighboring
countries we are facing a severe risk of
collapse of the humanitarian system the
situation is fast deteriorating into a c
catastrophe with potentially
irreversible implications for
Palestinians as a whole and for peace
and Security in the regon region such an
outcome must be avoided at all costs end
of
quot on 5 January 2024 the Secretary
General wrote again to the security
Council providing an update on the
situation in the Gaza Strip and
observing that I quote sadly devastating
levels of death and destruction continue
end of quote the court also takes note
of the 17 January 2024 statement issued
by the unra commissioner General upon
return from his fourth visit to the Gaza
Strip since the beginning of the current
conflict in Gaza I quote every time I
visit Gaza I Witness winess how people
have sunk further into despair with the
struggle for survival consuming every
hour end of
quote the court considers that the
civilian population in the Gaza Strip
remains extremely vulnerable it recalls
that the military operation conducted by
Israel after 7 October 2023 has resulted
inter Alia in tens of thousands of
deaths and injuries and the destruction
of homes schools medical facilities and
other vital infrastructure as well as
displacement on a massive scale the
court notes that the operation is
ongoing and that the prime minister of
Israel announced on 18 January 2024 that
the War I quote will take many more long
months end of quote at present many
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip have no
access to the most basic food stuffs
portable water electricity essential
medicines or Heating
the World Health Organization has
estimated that
15% of the women giving birth in Gaza
Strip are likely to experience
complications and indicates that
maternal and newborn death rates are
expected to increase due to the lack of
access to Medical
Care in these circumstances the court
considers that the catastrophic
humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip
is at serious risk of deteriorating
further before the court renders its
final
judgment the court recalls Israel's
statement that it has taken certain
steps to address and alleviate the
conditions faced by the population in
the Gaza Strip the court further notes
that the Attorney General of Israel
recently stated that a call for
intentional harm to civilians May amount
to a criminal offense including that of
incitement and that several such cases
are are being examined by Israeli law
enforcement authorities while such steps
are to be encouraged they are
insufficient to remove the risk that
irreparable prejudice will be caused
before the court issues its final
decision in the
case in light of the forging the court
considers that there is urgency in the
sense that there is a real and imminent
risk that irreparable prejudice will be
caused to the rights found by the court
to be plausible before it gives its
final
decision the court concludes on the
basis of the aforementioned
considerations that the conditions
required by its statute for it to
indicate provisional measures are met it
is therefore necessary pending its final
decision for the court to indicate
certain measures in order to protect the
rights claimed by South Africa that the
court has found to be
plausible the court recalls that it has
the power under its statute when a
request for provisional measures has
been
made to indicate measures that are in
whole or in part other than those
requested in the present case having
considered the terms of the provisional
measures requested by South Africa and
the circumstances of the case the court
finds that the measures indicated need
not be identical to those
requested the court considers that with
regard to the present situation Israel
must in accordance with its obligations
under the genocide convention in
relation to Palestinians in Gaza take
all measures within its power to prevent
the commission of all acts within the
scope of article two of the convention
in particular a killing groups members
of the group b causing serious bodily or
mental harm to members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in holder
in part and D imposing measures intended
to prevent bursts within the group the
court recalls that these acts fall
within the scope of Article 2 of the
convention when they are committed with
the intent to destroy in whole or in
part the group as
such the court further considers that
Israel must ensure with immediate effect
that its military forces do not commit
any of the aforementioned
acts the court is also of the view that
Israel must take measures within its
power to prevent and punish the direct
and public incitement to commit genocide
in relation to the members of the
Palestinian group in the Gaza
Strip the court further considers that
Israel must take immediate and effective
measures to enable the provision of
urgently needed basic services and
humanitarian assistance to address the
adverse conditions of Life faced by
Palestinians in the Gaza
Strip Israel must also take effective
measures to prevent the destruction and
ensure the preservation of evidence
related to allegations of Acts within
the scope of Article 2 and article 3 of
the genocide convention against members
of the Palestinian group in the Gaza
Strip regarding the provisional measure
requested by South Africa that Israel
must submit a report to the court on all
measures taken to give effect to the
order the court recalls that it has the
power reflected in article 78 of the
rules of court to request the parties to
provide information on any matter
connected with the implementation of any
provisional measures it has
indicated in view of the specific
provisional measures it has decided to
in indicate the court considers that
Israel must submit a report to the court
on all measures taken to give effect to
this order within 1 month as from the
the date of this order the report so
provided shall then be communicated to
South Africa which shall be given the
opportunity to submit to the court its
comments
thereon the court recalls that its
orders unpr provisional measures under
article 41 of the statute have binding
effect and thus create International
legal obligations for any party to whom
the provisional measures are
addressed the court reaffirms that the
decision given in the present
proceedings in no way prejudges the
question of the jurisdiction of the
court to deal with the merits of the
case or any questions related to the
admissibility of the application or to
the merits themselves it leaves
unaffected the right of the governments
of the Republic of South Africa and the
state of Israel to submit arguments in
respect of these
questions the order then states that the
court deems it necessary to emphasize
that all parties to the conflict in the
Gaza stript are bound by International
humanitarian law it is Gravely concerned
about the fate of the hostages abducted
during the attack in Israel on 7 October
2023 and held since then by Hamas and
other armed groups and calls for their
immediate and unconditional
release I shall Now read out the
operative part of the order
for these reasons the court indicates
the following provisional
measures one by 15 votes to two the
state of Israel shall in accordance with
its obligations under the convention on
the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide in relation to the
Palestinians in Gaza take all measures
within its power to prevent the
commission of all acts within the scope
of article two of the convention in
particular a killing killing members of
the group b causing serious bodily or
mental harm to members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in whole
or in part and D imposing measures
intended to prevent births within the
group in favor president Donahue vice
president gorian judges tomka Abraham
banauna Yousef schwe
bandari Robinson Salam iwasawa nte
Charlesworth Brandt judge adhoc Mosen
against judge seend judge adok
Barack by 15 votes to two the state of
Israel shall ensure with immediate
effect that its military does not commit
any acts described in 0.1 above in favor
president Donahue vice president gavor
organ judges tomka Abraham Bona
Yousef bandari Robinson Salam iwasawa
not Charlesworth brand judet hak
M against judge seend judge adok
Barack by 16 votes to one the state of
Israel shall take all measures within
its power to prevent and punish the
direct and public inight M to commit
genocide in relation to members of the
Palestinian group in the Gaza Strip in
favor president donu vice president
gorgian judges tomka Abraham Bona yusf
sche bandari Robinson Salam iwasawa nte
Charlesworth Brandt judges ad Haw Barack
msen against judge
seend by 16 votes to one the state of
Israel shall take immediate and
effective measures to ensure the
provision of urgently needed basic
services and humanitarian assistance to
address the adverse conditions of Life
faced by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip
in favor president Donahue vice
president gorgian judges tomka Abraham
Bona
yusf bandari Robinson Salam iwasawa nte
Charlesworth Brandt judges ad hoc Barack
M against judge
seend by 15 votes to
two the state of Israel shall take
effective measures to prevent the
destruction and ensure the preservation
of evidence related to allegations of
Acts within the scope of Article 2 and
article 3 of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide against members of the
Palestinian group in the Gaza Strip in
favor president donu vice president
gorgian judges tomka Abraham banona
Yousef CH bandari Robinson Salam iwasawa
nte Charlesworth Brandt judge edok M
against judge seend judge edok
Barack by 15 votes to two the state of
Israel shall submit a report to the
court report on all measures taken to
give effect to this order within one
month as from the date of the
order in favor president donu vice
president gavorin judges tomka Abraham
Bona Yousef SCH bandari Robinson Salam
iwasawa no Charlesworth Brandt judge
adak M
against judge seend judge edak Barack
I shall Now call upon the registar to
read the operative part of the order in
French